Add el2g integration documentation (#400)
foundriesio/docs: source/user-guide/el2g.rst

.. _ug-el2g:

Integrating EdgeLock 2GO
========================

TODO - some marketing agreement of how to pitch what this is.

Prerequisites
-------------

> 

Reviewer: Did we want to include Fioctl being configured? Though if they've made it to this page, we can probably assume this is the case.

 * A :ref:`secure element <ref-secure-elements>`
 * A FoundriesFactory that has been registered with EdgeLock 2GO.
   TODO: We don't have a process for this.

>  * Access to Factory PKI :ref:`root of trust <Root-of-trust>`.

Reviewer: "the Factory PKI" ?,  " your Factory PKI"?  I am leaning towards "the Factory PKI", but grammar + tech terms + documentation can get weird.

> Enabling devices to auto-connect to Foundries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling Devices to Auto-connect to Foundries.io
```

---------------------------------------------

> Fioctl includes commands that will configure EdgeLock 2GO to give out credentials that can automatically connect aktualizr-lite to the device gateway (removing the need to run lmp-device-register):

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Fioctl includes commands that will configure EdgeLock 2GO to give out credentials that automatically connect aktualizr-lite to the device gateway, removing the need to run ``lmp-device-register``:
```
Newline after header, but this doesn't change how it is rendered, so not too important.
Removed "can" to make it a bit more assertive. 
removed parens., though we could also break it up into two sentences...it just read a bit better to me with them.
lmp-device-register should be a literal, yeah?

.. prompt:: bash host:~$, auto

   host:~$ fioctl el2g config-device-gateway --pki-dir <path to your PKI root of trust>

> At this point EdgeLock 2GO will have an intermediate CA that can create device client certificates acceptable to the Foundries device gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now EdgeLock 2GO will have an intermediate CA that can create device client certificates acceptable to the Foundries.io device gateway.
```
Could also have "Now" after "EdgeLock 2GO", or you could ignore this suggestion entirely, it's mostly how it "sounds" in my head. 

Foundries needs to be Foundries.io still.

> ``fioctl el2g status`` will show something similar to::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running ``fioctl el2g status`` will show something similar to::
```

Avoids having a lower case literal at the beginning of the sentence, and is a touch more clear, imho.

  # Subdomain: yaytcakbhsmvi0cy.device-link.edgelock2go.com

  # Product IDs
  ID            NAME
  --            ----
  935389312472  SE050C2HQ1/Z01V3

  # Secure Objects
      TYPE         NAME                      OBJECT ID
      ----         ----                      ---------
      CERTIFICATE  fio-device-gateway-ca     83000043
      KEYPAIR      fio-device-gateway-ca-kp  83000042

  # Intermediate CAs
  Name: fio-device-gateway-ca
  Algorithm: NIST_P256
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  MIIBmjCCAUCgAwIBAgIUfFokkHTzV2GHUc+P2gKWfe5rWu4wCgYIKoZIzj0EAwIw
  ...

> Enabling devices to connect with AWS IoT (Optional):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Optional: Enabling Devices to Connect with AWS IoT
```
Header style rules.

   A device group is fixed to a specific product ID (e.g. an SE050 or SE051).
   The ``fioctl el2g`` commands create a single device group for a factory to make it easy to manage a homogenous security policy.
 * **Secure Object** - Secure objects are assigned to device groups to tell the EdgeLock 2GO what x509 key pairs should be assigned to devices.
   The most common use of a secure object combines a "Keypair" with a "Certificate".
   The certificate object is linked to an X509 Certificate Authority configured in the service.
   It can then sign certificate signing requests for a device key pair in order to generate client certificates.
 * **Subdomain** - Every EdgeLock 2GO account has a "device-link" subdomain that a device's ``nxp_iot_agent_demo`` binary connects to.
   This is the service where secure objects will be exchanged.

Further details
---------------
Foundries includes a set of convenience APIs for working with EdgeLock 2GO which are used by fioctl.
They are documented at
https://api.foundries.io/ota/

You may also access the full EdgeLock 2GO API via a reverse proxy:

 https://api.foundries.io/ota/factories/<factory>/el2g-proxy/

> he default FoundriesFactory EdgeLock 2GO implementation provides a free of charge evaluation for 30 days. Once enabled for commercial use the standard package limits usage to 50,000 devices per subscription year and 2x key pairs and 2x X.509 certificates per device - i.e. the FoundriesFactory key pair and certificate, and one additional set for authentication to a third party service such as AWS. If you require additional devices, or more key pairs per device, please contact us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The default FoundriesFactory EdgeLock 2GO implementation provides a free of charge evaluation for 30 days. Once enabled for commercial use the standard package limits usage to 50,000 devices per subscription year and 2x key pairs and 2x X.509 certificates per device - i.e. the FoundriesFactory key pair and certificate, and one additional set for authentication to a third party service such as AWS. If you require additional devices, or more key pairs per device, please contact us.
```

.. _ug-el2g:

Integrating EdgeLock 2GO
========================

TODO - some marketing agreement of how to pitch what this is.

Prerequisites
-------------

 * A :ref:`secure element <ref-secure-elements>`
 * A FoundriesFactory that has been registered with EdgeLock 2GO.
   TODO: We don't have a process for this.
 * Access to Factory PKI :ref:`root of trust <Root-of-trust>`.

> Enabling Devices to Auto-connect to Foundries.io
> ---------------------------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling Devices to Auto-connect to Foundries.io
--------------------------------------------------
```
*grumbles* Sorry, forgot the darn title underline

  # Subdomain: yaytcakbhsmvi0cy.device-link.edgelock2go.com

  # Product IDs
  ID            NAME
  --            ----
  935389312472  SE050C2HQ1/Z01V3

  # Secure Objects
      TYPE         NAME                      OBJECT ID
      ----         ----                      ---------
      CERTIFICATE  fio-device-gateway-ca     83000043
      KEYPAIR      fio-device-gateway-ca-kp  83000042

  # Intermediate CAs
  Name: fio-device-gateway-ca
  Algorithm: NIST_P256
  -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
  MIIBmjCCAUCgAwIBAgIUfFokkHTzV2GHUc+P2gKWfe5rWu4wCgYIKoZIzj0EAwIw
  ...

Optional: Enabling Devices to Connect with AWS IoT
----------------------------------------------------
Users interested in integrating with AWS IoT can follow these steps to enlist their devices.

Configure the integration by running:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$, auto

   host:~$ fioctl el2g config-aws-iot

This command will use your local AWS credentials and awscli to get an certificate authority registration code (``aws iot get-registration-code``).
A new intermediate CA will be created in Edgelock2Go and will sign this code.
New secure objects will be created and assigned to your device group(s).

> The verification and CA certificate will be returned and sent back to AWS IoT to complete the process.

Reviewer: "returned and sent back" can also be a bit confusing as worded, and required a couple reads. A "returned by" can help the reader keep track of the process.

> The verification and CA certificate will be returned and sent back to AWS IoT to complete the process.

Author: i tried to fix this with 74178f94898cb30e40c61a8fdba3b8af2cecb443 not super happy though.

> At this point you have two options. Manual device registration or Just-In-Time-Provisioning (JITP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point you have two options: Manual device registration or Just-In-Time-Provisioning (JITP).
```

Manual Registration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Manual registration is the easiest path, but not very scalable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manual registration is the easier path, but not as scalable.
```

> You can add devices one-by-one via the AWS WebUI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You add devices one-by-one via the AWS WebUI.
```

> The WebUI will need you to provide the client certificate of the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you will need you to provide the client certificate of the device.
```

> This can be done by looking for the ``aws-iot-ca`` in the output of a device's ``fioctl el2g devices <device>`` output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done by looking for the ``aws-iot-ca`` in the output of the device's ``fioctl el2g devices <device>`` output.
```

  # recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register/lmp-el2go-auto-register/default.env
  REPOID=<YOUR ID FROM fioctl factories>

Now create a file ``recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register/lmp-el2go-auto-register/root.crt`` with the value of your factory's root CA:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$, auto

  host:~$ fioctl keys ca show --just-root > recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register/lmp-el2go-auto-register/root.crt

Finally, override the main recipe with::

  # recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register/lmp-el2go-auto-register.bbappend
  FILESEXTRAPATHS:prepend := "${THISDIR}/${PN}:"

.. _recipe:
   https://github.com/foundriesio/meta-lmp/tree/main/meta-lmp-base/recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register

Once built with these configuration options a device will start the ``lmp-el2go-auto-register`` script at boot to:

 * Download configured key pairs
 * Configure/start aktualizr-lite

Enlisting devices
-----------------
Devices must be added to an EdgeLock 2GO allow-list so that they will be authorized to obtain client credentials.
A device with an SE05X can be added with:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$, auto

>    host:~$ fioctl el2g devces --add 935389312472 <device id>

Author: tried to address with - 74178f94898cb30e40c61a8fdba3b8af2cecb443

The status of the device will look similar to::

   host:~$ fioctl el2g devices
   GROUP             ID                                          LAST CONNECTION
   -----             --                                          ---------------
   fio-935389312472  348555492004256518532939906410866457667712

Once enlisted a device's ``lmp-el2go-auto-register`` service will get it's new key pair(s) and start the aktualizr-lite daemon.
You should now see the device is provisioned with::

   host:~$ fioctl el2g devices <device id>
   Hardware Type: SE050C2HQ1/Z01V3
   Hardware 12NC: 935389312472
   Secure Objects:
   NAME                      TYPE         STATUS
   ----                      ----         ------
   fio-device-gateway-ca-kp  KEYPAIR      PROVISIONING_COMPLETED
   fio-device-gateway-ca     CERTIFICATE  PROVISIONING_COMPLETED

> You can troubleshoot this by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If needed, you can troubleshoot this by running:
```

.. prompt:: bash device:~$, auto

   device:~$ journalctl -fu lmp-el2go-auto-register

Testing AWS IoT
---------------
If your devices are configured to use AWS IoT, you can test things out with our example container that publishes an MQTT message to your instance::

  device:~$ docker run --rm -it \
      -e AWS_ENDPOINT=<YOUR AWS MQTT SERVER>.amazonaws.com \
      --device=/dev/tee0:/dev/tee0 \
      hub.foundries.io/lmp/awsiot-optee:postmerge

**NOTE:** If (JITP) is enabled, the first call will **fail** but AWS will register the device.
Subsequent calls will succeed.

> The message is published to the topic ``se050/demo`` with a payload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The message is published to the topic ``se050/demo`` with a payload of
```

Configure the integration by running:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$, auto

   host:~$ fioctl el2g config-aws-iot

This command uses your local AWS credentials and awscli to get a Certificate Authority (CA) registration code: ``aws iot get-registration-code``.
The registration code is a randomly generated number by AWS.
A new intermediate CA will be created in Edgelock2Go and will be used to sign this code.
New secure objects will then be created and assigned to your device group(s).
The signed verification code and CA certificate are uploaded to AWS
IoT.
AWS IoT can verify the registration code was signed properly and
complete the process.

At this point you have two options: Manual device registration or Just-In-Time-Provisioning (JITP).

Manual Registration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Manual registration is the easier path, but not as scalable.
You add devices one-by-one via the AWS WebUI.
Here you will need you to provide the client certificate of the device.
This can be done by looking for the ``aws-iot-ca`` in the output of the device's ``fioctl el2g devices <device>`` output.

JITP
~~~~
JITP automates the device registration process with AWS IoT.

> Setting up JITP is specific to a user's AWS deployment, requiring an IAM policy template to define a what device may do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up JITP is specific to a user's AWS deployment, requiring an IAM policy template to define what a device may do.
```

  # recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register/lmp-el2go-auto-register/default.env
  REPOID=<YOUR ID FROM fioctl factories>

Now create a file ``recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register/lmp-el2go-auto-register/root.crt`` with the value of your factory's root CA:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$, auto

  host:~$ fioctl keys ca show --just-root > recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register/lmp-el2go-auto-register/root.crt

Finally, override the main recipe with::

  # recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register/lmp-el2go-auto-register.bbappend
  FILESEXTRAPATHS:prepend := "${THISDIR}/${PN}:"

.. _recipe:
   https://github.com/foundriesio/meta-lmp/tree/main/meta-lmp-base/recipes-support/lmp-el2go-auto-register

Once built with these configuration options a device will start the ``lmp-el2go-auto-register`` script at boot to:

 * Download configured key pairs
 * Configure/start aktualizr-lite

Enlisting devices
-----------------
Devices must be added to an EdgeLock 2GO allow-list so that they will be authorized to obtain client credentials.
A device with an SE05X, product ID ``935389312472``, can be added with:

.. prompt:: bash host:~$, auto

>    host:~$ fioctl el2g devces --add 935389312472 <device id>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   host:~$ fioctl el2g devices --add 935389312472 <device id>
```

---------------------
 * **Device Group** - EdgeLock 2GO manages devices by device groups.
   A device group is fixed to a specific product ID (e.g. an SE050 or SE051).
   The ``fioctl el2g`` commands create a single device group for a factory to make it easy to manage a homogenous security policy.
 * **Secure Object** - Secure objects are assigned to device groups to tell the EdgeLock 2GO what x509 key pairs should be assigned to devices.
   The most common use of a secure object combines a "Keypair" with a "Certificate".
   The certificate object is linked to an X509 Certificate Authority configured in the service.
   It can then sign certificate signing requests for a device key pair in order to generate client certificates.
 * **Subdomain** - Every EdgeLock 2GO account has a "device-link" subdomain that a device's ``nxp_iot_agent_demo`` binary connects to.
   This is the service where secure objects will be exchanged.

Further details
---------------
Foundries includes a set of convenience APIs for working with EdgeLock 2GO which are used by fioctl.
They are documented at
https://api.foundries.io/ota/

You may also access the full EdgeLock 2GO API via a reverse proxy:

>  https://api.foundries.io/ota/factories/<factory>/el2g-proxy/

Reviewer: Consider using backticks here. When rendered, up to '<factory>' is rendered as an active link

Author: https://github.com/foundriesio/docs/pull/400/commits/97fc42ded5557a02d1be0a4841c2f959ddded2f1

.. _ug-el2g:

Integrating EdgeLock 2GO
========================

EdgeLock 2GO® is an optional add-on FoundriesFactory service to simplify securing devices in manufacturing.
The service enables automated installation and secure storage of required keys, certificates and credentials on first connection of each end device to the Internet.

> Key benefits include enablement of manufacturing in an untrusted facility, reducing complexity and time to secure devices on the manufacturing line, and simplified management of keys and certificates for devices and fleets in the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. admonition::  Key Benefits
- enablement of manufacturing in an untrusted facility
- reducing complexity and time required to secure devices on the manufacturing line
- simplified management of keys and certificates for devices and fleets in the field.
```
_I have not checked that this will render correctly._ This is all said above, but having a quick summary isn't a bad idea. My suggestion is to place it in a "box" in bulleted form for a "at a glance". Or ignore, it works as is.

A pre-requisite of the service is that the device hardware includes an NXP SE05x hardware security element, or uses an i.MX 8ULP or 9 series SoC.

> We offer a free evaluation of the service on the i.MX 8M Plus EVK with a connected SE050 evaluation, or on the Arduino Portenta X8 (early Q4 2022).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We offer a free evaluation of the service on the `i.MX 8M Plus EVK <https://www.nxp.com/design/development-boards/i-mx-evaluation-and-development-boards/evaluation-kit-for-the-i-mx-8m-plus-applications-processor:8MPLUSLPD4-EVK>`_ with a connected SE050 evaluation, or on the Arduino Portenta X8 (early Q4 2022).
```
I feel like a bad person for all these embedded links I'm tossing in. If the links are suitable and address the feedback we got on slack, I could always replace them with named references.

Prerequisites
-------------

 * An :ref:`NXP SE05X secure element <ref-secure-elements>`

>  * A FoundriesFactory that has been registered with EdgeLock® 2GO. Please contact our support team or use Slack to arrange this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * A FoundriesFactory that has been registered with EdgeLock 2GO. Please `contact our support team <https://foundriesio.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/1/group/1/create/3>`_ or use Slack to arrange this.
```
Trademark no longer needed as there is now a earlier first usage. Is the right link in the right place?

>    TODO: We don't have a process for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Remove TODO as cleanup? linking to customer support portal above.

 * Access to your Factory PKI :ref:`root of trust <Root-of-trust>`.

> Enabling Devices to Auto-connect to Foundries.io

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling Auto-connect to Foundries.io
```

.. _ug-el2g:

Integrating EdgeLock 2GO
========================

EdgeLock® 2GO is an optional add-on FoundriesFactory service that simplifies the securing of devices during manufacturing.
The service enables the automated installation and secure storage of required keys, certificates, and credentials when the end device first connects to the internet.

> .. admonition::  Key Benefits
> - enablement of manufacturing in an untrusted facility

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. tip::
   Key Benefits:
   - enablement of manufacturing in an untrusted facility
```

> - reducing complexity and time required to secure devices on the manufacturing line
> - simplified management of keys and certificates for devices and fleets in the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - reducing complexity and time required to secure devices on the manufacturing line
   - simplified management of keys and certificates for devices and fleets in the field.
   
```
Rendering issue. changed to built in admonition, though the issue is likely due to GitHub web editor and whitespace not working as desired.
